Alright, it's time to announce our lab manager for today. We are joined by Charlie. Charlie
Gao, would you like to introduce yourself?
Sure. Hi everyone. Nice to see you all. I'm Charlie Gao. I'm a member of the Open Source
team at Posit and, you know, sort of icebreaker. I have on this PONV t-shirt from Seattle in
2024. And as you can see, this is actually a participant's t-shirt. So Isabella has a
green one, one of the staff t-shirts. And so at this, the conference, two conferences
ago, I was a member of our community and it was really after that conference that I joined
Posit. First as a contractor and then full time. So what do I work on? Well, I work on
sort of a number of things across Open Source. So what I've been working on most recently has
actually been Quarto. So I've been actively involved in Quarto 2, which is the new Rust
rewrite that has been announced. So I'm free to sort of say that. But as part of that, you will
all be getting a collaborative editor. Yes. So that's been an incredibly exciting project to be
working on. But apart from that, I'm also the creator and maintainer of a few R packages, Mirai,
9x, Secretbase, et cetera. And these are all packages that were that are mostly written in C,
actually, for high performance computing and networking. So myself, I'm very deep into sort
of async. Apart from working on Mirai, which is the package I'm probably most well known for,
I've also implemented modern async into packages that you all use,
often like Hidde2 and Elmer. I also maintain the later package on behalf of Joe and Winston.
Those are packages that they created very early on. And I've sort of taken over the
maintainership as they've focused more on AI-related applications. Later, I was the core
event loop in Shiny and other sort of key R packages like Plumber. And it is basically a way
for different packages to cooperate with each other, even though they're running at the same time.
So as you can see, I'm very much into sort of async, into sort of working on R internals,
decode, and also communication. So this is like HTTP, WebSockets, and hence my work with Shiny
and now on Quarto and the collaborative editor. So today, I'm mostly going to be focusing on
Mirai and how to use that for parallel and async programming.
Yes, I would love to start with what the heck is async programming,
and how is it different from parallel?
Sure. So let me just hit that on the head straight away. So we cover all the sort of
technical jargon. Parallel is basically when you're running two things at the same time.
And async is just you're not waiting around while that happens. That is as simple as I can put it.
So let me share my screen, and I'll give you a concrete example of what I mean by that.
Yes, please.
Okay. I'm going to be sharing my whole desktop, and you see my Zoom screen, obviously.
Can everybody see okay with the size, or does anything need to be Zoomed?
This is now is the time to let us know. Brian says he's okay.
So if I'm typing stuff like this, is everyone going to be okay?
Okay. Let's see.
Russ says size is okay.
I've Zoomed this in already, so this is...
We have some thumbs up. Okay. If anybody needs us to stop, let us know. We'll make it bigger.
Excellent. So this is... Actually, before I even start with any code, if I just switch to
the package downside for Mirai itself, this might be... If I just try and zoom this in.
Yeah. Okay. So Mirai is sort of the main package I'm going to be talking about today.
This is a package that I developed about three to four years ago is when I started work on this.
So this is much more recent than any other sort of parallel code that you'll see in base R.
That code has been around for 20 to... I'm not sure if it's 30,
but it's at least 20 years, and that hasn't changed.
So this is sort of a much more modern take on how to run R code in parallel and async.
Mirai is Japanese for future, for anyone who's wondering. So this is an implementation of future.
So it's basically a computation that's going to be ready sometime in the future.
And Mirai just is future in Japanese. So that's why it's called Mirai.
And maybe while I'm here on the website, just a digression before I get onto code.
And this is mirai.rlib.org. So this is just mirai.rlib.org.
You'll see there's this Ask DeepWiki button, and this is on a few Posit packages.
We use this on the Quoto site itself, because Quoto is very complicated, has a lot of components.
And this is just an easy way for users to ask questions.
So you can click in, and this is sort of AI LLM powered.
There's ways that you can use this programmatically, but essentially you can click in,
and it gives you an in-depth overview of everything that's within Mirai,
like its documentation and its functions. But the great thing is you drop straight into this
sort of chat box that you see here, and you can ask any question that you have about Mirai.
So even after this lab is complete, you can just go in and you can ask any question.
And the great thing about this is you can put in your question in any language,
and it will give you the answer in your own language of preference.
So if I say something like...
Wait a minute, do you speak French, Charlie?
Sudden low drop. Charlie speaks French.
No, I haven't really used it since school. It's just when I learned it.
But you can see, this gives you a nice answer, gives you examples,
runnable code, et cetera, in the language of your choosing.
And this is going to be more helpful if you're working in Japanese or Chinese or something like
that. It's really powerful, the sort of AI LLM power tools that we get nowadays.
But that's sort of like a nice affordance that's just there on the homepage for Mirai.
So I'm going to switch back now to my Positron window. And if I just spend like a couple of
minutes again, I'm delaying the point where I actually write code.
You're killing me, Charlie. You're killing me.
Just building up the suspense. So you can see what I have here is basically the two-pane
view for Positron. And I think this basically gives you a clue that I'm more of a software
engineer than a data scientist, because I don't have the default data science view.
And if you're curious about how to get there, it's really simple.
If you click on this layout button, it's the side-by-side.
And you just enable the sidebar, whatever it's called. Yeah, the sidebar.
And the sidebar gives you all the usual tools, so files, search, Git, integration, et cetera.
And you can see I have these buttons along the top. This is also key to sort of the whole
ergonomics of using Positron. And this, you've probably seen this before, because this is,
you know, I'm sure Libby and Isabella has gone through this. But the default is this activity
bar. The default is sort of down this side. And that sort of like, for me, takes up a lot of
sort of screen real estate. So the first thing I do, and this is great because this is sort of
remembered. You only have to do this once, is to set this to top. So activity bar position top,
and you're good to go. And this is sort of my default setting for all the work I'm sort of
usually work on. So I have my source files here on the left. And then I will have the console,
or I have a terminal. So I have a terminal session with something I was working on with
flawed code earlier. It's not disappearing. Okay. So very simply, and I have some notes here,
just like this is like, this session is totally unscripted. But this is just some notes of like,
what I definitely want to cover. So I don't go completely off topic. So okay, act one,
what is Mirai? So first things first is launch the package. If you haven't got it installed,
then just install it, either from crown. Or I would actually encourage you to try and install
the development version. Because there's some nice new features in there that if we have time,
I will share with you. And it will be the first time I've revealed these significant
new features that will be released, hopefully later this month. And to install the
install the dev version of Mirai, then you you can just do pack pack and oops.
Sorry. And you can install it from the GitHub repo our lib slash Mirai.
So will you be using dev version today?
I will be. Okay. And and there's no difference from from what I'm showing you. Unless we go into
what specifically I've implemented later on, if we have time. So if you haven't got installed,
feel free to sort of install it, it will pull in the development version of next as well,
which is what underlies Mirai and powers all the sort of high performance networking.
So very quickly. So now I've installed it, then I load the package. And the main
function in Mirai is just Mirai. So there's nothing for you to sort of learn. Then there aren't sort
of there are no options. There are no options or environment variables that you can set with Mirai.
Everything is very explicit. The main function is Mirai. So it's really designed so you don't have
to sort of remember anything. So to use Mirai, you can just say, sorry, let me just start a new session
because I just installed it. Sometimes this doesn't like me running things.
So if I just if I just put something in Mirai and Mirai basically just runs whatever expression
in another process. Okay. So you can put anything here. So for example, and any any expression. So
anything you can put in is brackets. So we can say like sleep. So start sleep too. And then say,
you know, have it returned done or something like that. Right. So when you create a Mirai,
this object is a Mirai. And you can see like it's sort of like a mirror. So you can see
when you create a Mirai, this object is a Mirai. And you can see like it's
this is the the result of this is basically available at data. Which is done here. Okay.
This is this is too simple. But if we should say this is too this is over too quickly.
So if we have this sort of last 10 seconds, then if we look at this object, this isn't actually
done yet, you can see this, this sort of brackets here, this is just the print method, right. And
then what we can do is we can say is it resolved or not, and unresolved. So this is now actually
resolved. So this is now finished, right, this test is now finished, and then it will be available
at data. Okay. So this sort of shows you that, basically, when you have this on, this is happening
in another process, then we're free in our own session to do other tasks. And that is essentially
what async is. So this is where I would love to hop in and ask Lauren's question, which is,
what was the motivation or the need for developing Mirai? What problem is this built to solve?
So I'm imagining as a person who in undergrad and grad school had to leave her computer running
overnight to run projects, that this would mean if you have something that's a very, very long
process that's going to take a very long time, you can do something else while you're waiting
for that to finish. Am I right?
Yes.
So there are many ways you can use it. One is as you described, so if you have something like
And sort of my background, I say I'm not a data scientist sort of now. I did do sort of data
science-y type things previously. I was actually sort of building these deep neural nets actually.
So I was actually training these neural nets and then I was actually running influence on them.
Influence on them, sorry. And so I was using mirai for both of those purposes, right. So
first of all, if you have something as
sort of ongoing for a long time, you can run them in parallel in background processes,
and that each of them is self-contained. So if something sort of errors and goes wrong in one
of them, all the others will still progress to completion, hopefully, because they don't
interact with each other. That's one thing. And the second part is really what led me to
develop mirai, which is I was actually running inference with one of these neural nets,
one of these models, right? And I was actually also ingesting real-time data. And so this was
actually financial market data that I was ingesting through an API in real time and trying to run this
through this model and then save the inference results in basically a kind of database, right?
So because this all had to happen in real time, then I couldn't afford to just run things in a
sort of a normal loop, because if something falls over, then that basically stops the whole thing.
So what mirai can allow you to do is it can allow you to offload different tasks into different
processes so that your main loop can stay reactive. So essentially, your main loop,
you're not doing very much at all in it. You're just checking to see if other parts of that you
need are all done. So whether that's ingesting data or that's writing data, those can be done
in separate processes. And you can have basically redundancy and sort of fail over in your main
loop. That is a very sort of high-level overview. But hopefully, that makes sense to everyone.
Well, we got like seven more questions based off of that answer. So I would say that it makes a
little bit of sense, but we need more context. So do you want to give another code example,
and then we can hop in with more questions? Excellent. Let me go through some more of
what I want to show you. So I was on here, right? So one way we can sort of work with async is we
have this thing that's running another process. And then in Mirai, if you do these brackets,
right, this is the collect method. So this is actually equivalent. This is basically collect
Mirai, right? This basically says it's already done. But this will actually wait for the Mirai
to complete and then return the result. So if I do this again, then this will actually wait. So
This is basically parallel, this is not really async while you're waiting, but this is one way
that you can sort of get the results. But this is where you can pair mirai with promises to actually
have actions happen as soon as a result is complete without you having to wait for it. So
this works something like this, and this is basically how mirai with shiny works. So
shiny, you know, everything is async, your shiny server serves many different users,
you can't have that server sort of like stop and wait for one particular user to finish. So if I
if I load up the promises
package, yeah, so what I can do here is, so again, if I say something,
if I say sleep, and then that basically, if I just return a value,
and then how promises work is you can say, you know, once that's done, then do something else
with the return value. And here, like an example I like using is just to use the beeper function,
and it will like play a sound. So here's, you know, this mirai is going to run for two seconds,
then it's going to return two, and then it's going to call beeper beep two, which is the
second beep sound. And I realized like, you don't hear this, right?
No, no, no, you'd have to share your system sound. We'll trust you that your computer.
Okay, so like, okay, you're gonna have to trust me. But this basically goes
bling. So this is like, it's like a sort of Mario sound. Like, yeah.
Like you're getting a coin in Mario.
Like, yeah, exactly. It's the coin sound.
And so this is sort of like how this works. And, you know, that sound plays without me having to
sort of interact. And to give you a more sort of concrete example of how this sort of works,
if I do a mirai map, so this is, this is basically the equivalent of elaply or per map. But this
basically maps each individual element in a different background process, right? So if I
map sort of, you know, this thing to a function,
and then this just sleeps for the specified number. So from one to five seconds,
and returns that number. And this mirror map has an argument, which is called dot promise,
and basically works exactly the same as promises then. So we can pass a function
to this. And again, if we use beeper, beep, this will sort of play all the first five beeps in
five seconds. And let me try and switch the microphone so that you can actually.
If you just hit the share button again, then you can click share system sound,
and it should let you do it. I think I just did it. Anyway. Sure. If I just play this,
oh, okay. So I hit an error. So this is basically telling me that I need to set demons. So
I can just click through here and set demons. So demons, again, is another piece of jargons.
Demons are basically just workers. They are background processes, right?
And the reason it asked me to set demons for this map is for a map, here I'm mapping only
five elements, but that map could be over like 100 or 1,000 elements, right? And if demons
weren't set, then you'd basically be launching 1,000 different sessions on your own machine,
and that will probably crash your machine. So for a map, it will ask you to set the demons
beforehand. Because it's usually sort of an oversight or mistake, as it was in this case.
So I've just gone ahead and set six demons, which are basically background processes.
At any time in MRI, there's a function which is just info, and you can see, like, exactly
the status of what's happened. So we have six connections here. Okay. We'll go through what
the rest means in a bit. So if I just attempt that function again, then
hopefully you heard that, right? Okay.
Nope. It's okay.
Oh, you didn't. Oh, sorry. What do I need to
do? You would need to hit the share button, and then you might have to hit advanced and then
share system sound, or there's a little checkbox on the right that says share system sound.
But it's okay. If it doesn't work out, it's all right. We have about 50 questions. So I say
we get some questions in here because there's a lot of confusion,
like there's a lot of things that you have talked about, like future promises, things that we don't
have any context for. So let's dig into some of these really quickly here. One of them is
from Nathan. Do the contents of MRI inherit definitions from the global environment?
No. And this is a conscious sort of design decision, and it helps you sort of avoid
mistakes. And like, this is sort of, like, to my mind, this is how sort of things are meant to be.
And I know, like, that future, like, does it differently. And that package has been around
for a while. So people sort of know that behavior. But there are various sort of
age cases there. And the sort of, the danger in trying to sort of
automatically sort of infer what's sort of in your MRI can lead to sort of,
well, in the best case, it can lead to errors. But like, the worst case, like,
it's something wrong, and you get a plausible answer, and you don't even know you're wrong.
So that arguably is sort of worse. MRI is sort of very explicit in that sense,
and I'll show you exactly what I mean. So if I, if I define something like,
if I define something like slow func, right? So this, say, just function, and this just,
just again, just sleeps. And then it returns something like done. Okay. So if I attempt to
sort of run MRI slow func, right? You might think that would work.
But what you would actually see is there's an error. And it just says error,
cannot find function slow func. Because MRI runs your expression in another process. And this is
a clean process. Every time you call MRI, that is like a clean invocation. There's nothing in
that evaluation environment. So what you would do here is you can call it, but then you would pass
in slow func to the MRI. So something, something like this, right? So the expression is the same,
but then you would define slow func inside the MRI is the slow func, which is this function that's
living in my current environment. Okay. And then we get the result we expect.
Okay. So you have mentioned future and promises again, and you were like, everyone knows what
that is. Charlie, we do not. So if you could give us a little primer on the difference between
MRI and promises and future, one of the questions was like, wait, I'm confused.
Why would I choose MRI versus promises or future?
So promises is a way basically, as I showed to have actions occur when your MRI or your future
are complete. So they're designed to be used together, and they do different things. MRI or
future is just a way to run an expression in another process, right? Either in parallel or async.
Okay. So they, things like future and promises keep things running during these like long running
tasks, where if you have a chain of tasks that need to happen, for example, in a shiny app,
right, that need to happen one after another, are reactive to each other. Some of those future tasks
need to be set aside and stored so that they can happen once something has finished running and
they can all happen all at one time. Does that sound right? Or like they can all happen in order.
Yes. So a promise will be basically, it's a promise uses these verbs like then, right? So
this is the key, this is the key function from promises. Sorry, that's not really helpful.
So it's basically, it's basically, you know, when you have a MRI and that's finished,
then like then take the return value from that and pipe it into another function.
Okay. So Renato in the chat says, wait, I'm lost. Aren't our functions run sequentially anyway?
Okay. So let me maybe just go through like the second part of my
what I had, what I had in sort of what I wanted to demonstrate. So like sequential is basically,
so you're right. R is single threaded. So without a package like MRI, everything will run sequentially.
And MRI is basically designed to overcome that. And why this is important? Well, I mean,
R has been around for, you know, 30 years or so. I mean, back then, you were lucky if you had sort
of, you know, two or four cores, that was sort of the sort of the norm. But, you know, modern
laptop has at least eight cores. My MacBook, I have 14 cores. And all your computations in R
by default only uses one single core. So easiest way to sort of demonstrate that is if I define
a function, again, DOM task, if I just define that as and again, I'm sort of using these generic
functions because it's easier for me to control sort of how long they take rather than like an
actual function that takes a long time. So this will just leave for two seconds and then return
the number. Okay? So if I actually sort of time how long this takes, then if I apply this to say
a five, a long task, right? Then, you know, five times two, you expect this to last ten seconds.
As you can see. And, you know, you're sort of this is just sleeping for two seconds. But,
you know, you can imagine that that could be doing some kind of, you know, either complex
sort of matrix multiplications. You could be doing sort of or you could be like
hitting some kind of API and waiting for sort of data to come in, right? So
that's what you what you would want is for those to run in parallel. So if you
reset six daemons, which are six workers, then if we do the same thing and
and time sort of a mirai map, which is the parallel equivalent of lapply.
Long task. And here we actually we actually wait for these to complete,
because otherwise it will return immediately.
And then we can see that because they're done in parallel, this whole thing only takes two seconds.
All right. That made a lot more sense to my brain.
We have each of these elements assigned to a different process and they can all happen at
the same time. So I can say I can be like, all right, I have these, let's say, five modeling
tasks, I think in statistical modeling. So I have these five modeling tasks and they're going to
take a while because they are each going to iterate over a bunch of things themselves.
And I can run all of them at the same time on different cores of my computer.
And I don't have to keep my laptop awake overnight in order to run them all and get all of those and
wait for all of them sequentially to run on the same core.
That's right. And, you know, these they don't have to be sort of, you know, even sort of simple
functions. They can be really they can be full scripts and you can literally do mirai and you
can say, you know, you can literally say source whatever, you know, whatever file you have and
they can run your entire script, which, you know, may take hours, may take days even, right?
And you can have them running in different in different processes. And the key about mirai is
with mirai, you don't need to care, like, whether that's just running in another
process on your own machine. So you're sort of utilizing all the cores that your laptop has.
Or if they're running in processes on another machine. So if you have like a network server,
right, if you have a workstation, where you can send jobs, or if you're, you know, if you're,
yeah, distributed, exactly. If you're at a university and you have access to like an HPC
cluster, mirai allows you to do all of that. And hopefully, we'll have time where I can just show
you something very simple. I'm glad that you said that, because I've been holding on to Hubert's
question, because I knew I knew we're going to get there. Hubert had asked, wait, can you use
mirai with the HPC? Yes, absolutely. So we're distributing the work between cores right now on
our laptop on Charlie's laptop. But we can assign distributed machines as our workers with mirai as
well. And we can scale up and down depending on our needs. Right, Charlie? Great. And hopefully,
I, before we run out of time, I want to just go through this code. Because again, you've
hit the nail on the head. There are two sort of core reasons why you would want to use mirai.
And the first is, you can scale up and down the resources you need dynamically. So if you decide
you need more workers to sort of crunch the tasks that you have on hand, you can simply add more
workers that sort of these things aren't fixed. And what I want to show you is basically how this
happens, right? So mirai basically works as a, if you think about it as a kind of a hub model,
so when you set up demons, this basically you set up like something that listens for
incoming connections, right? So what you can do is you can set up demons with a URL. So this,
and you can, and we have this helper function called local URL. So if you do that, then
what happens is that sets up what you can think of as a base station. This listens for incoming
connections from your demons, from demons that are started, right? As long as they have access
to this URL, then they can connect in and you have, then you have a worker that's connected.
So if I set this up, then this info's function is going to come in handy. You can see that there
are no connections at the moment. And what you can do is you can launch local demons with
this function, launch like, sorry, not local, launch local. Okay, so launch.
We're scrambling Charlie's brain, y'all.
Yeah. And you can say something like, you know, launch for local processes.
and that basically goes ahead and does that.
So if we look again, we have four processes.
So we can do things like, you know,
if I just evaluate mirai, like nothing,
then we can see that, you know,
oh, well, we have one task that's completed here, right?
Just to check that something's happening.
And, you know, assuming we've set this up and, you know,
we can be running lots of things.
So I'm just going to copy this thing here.
So this just runs a bunch of long tasks.
And, okay, so there are two that's executing,
five that's completed,
and now all seven tasks have completed.
But if you have a bunch of things
and you sort of, you realize you have a large backlog,
then you can basically simply just launch more daemons.
So you can say, oh, one launch at another four daemons.
And now we basically have eight workers online.
So any tasks that have been queued
will just automatically use the number of available workers.
Okay, wait, wait, pause for two seconds.
We have produced daemons,
we have created daemons automatically.
Do we need to manually close them?
Same with these processes that we're launching
or these connections that we're launching.
Do we need to explicitly close both daemons and connections?
Yes, so, I mean, daemons are connections
and they're the same thing.
Okay, very good.
These, it's always good practice to close them.
And the way to do that is to set daemons to zero
and that will close them straight away.
But if you forget to close them
and you just end your R session,
they will all disappear as well.
There's no danger of sort of leaving hanging processes
at all, they're all, as soon as the connection drops,
they're all designed to terminate themselves.
Perfect.
Yes, but, you know, if you have a script
or if you have a markdown document,
it's always good to pair a daemons
with a daemon zero at the end.
Okay, great.
I interrupted you.
We have 15 minutes left.
We still have so many questions,
but I would love for you to be able to finish your sign.
I thought I was gonna have too much time,
which is why I sort of like overdid the introduction.
And, okay, so the second part apart from,
so apart from sort of the scaling
and sort of ability to add and subtract daemons
at any time is you can run them anywhere.
So if you just do daemons and the number,
this will just launch processes on your own machine.
But those processes can also be another machine
and there are different ways you can launch them.
One is over SSH.
One is via cluster manager.
That's if you have access to a cluster.
The other is via Posit Workbench.
So if you're lucky enough to be
in an enterprise sort of environment
that actually has Workbench,
you can easily launch workers as Workbench jobs.
But I won't cover that.
I will try and cover SSH as an example.
So the way you do that is you call daemons
and you create a URL, which is using this helper,
which is host URL.
Okay, so this creates a network socket,
which is available to other computers on your network.
So other computers will be able to connect
to this address, this URL, right?
And if I do that again, like nothing's connected yet.
And what I can do is I can create a remote configuration.
And in this case, this will be an SSH configuration.
And again, we have these helpers
that really sort of like minimize what needs to be done.
So here I create an SSH configuration
and the only, sorry, there are arguments,
but the only required argument is this remotes argument.
And that is simply the URL of the computer
that you have SSH access to.
So to give you an example, I switched to my terminal here.
If I have, sorry, this is just,
so I actually, I'm actually connected to a VPN.
So this is, I have access.
So if I can have SSH, right, over the, so slash P,
this is the port that you connect to.
And this is the address of the machine
that you can connect to, sorry, here.
And if I have access to this machine of SSH,
and so this is like, I'm actually running on this machine.
So I have a MacBook,
but this is connected to a Linux machine now.
I'm gonna just exit out of that.
But essentially that URL there,
which was 192.168.0.101.
That's the only information I need
to set up this configuration in Mirai.
Okay, so once I have that,
then I can actually launch, use launch remotes
and not launch local, launch remotes.
So again, I can launch maybe two daemons
and I can pass that configuration in, okay?
See what happened, oh.
Ah, so we have a time.
So again, this is, this is, this is useful
because again, as I was explaining how Mirai works
is you spin up this basically like this base station, right?
Which listens for incoming connections.
That means the computer that you have SSH access to
has to be able to dial into your,
to the machine that you're running Mirai on.
And in this case, that's not possible
because I don't have these ports that are opened
on my local laptop.
Fortunately, Mirai allows you to connect
using SSH tunneling.
So SSH tunneling, again, like people tend to get confused.
So I will try and explain it in as simple terms as possible.
SSH tunneling is basically when you connect to a computer,
using SSH, that creates a tunnel immediately.
So imagine there's a tunnel between the two sides.
Now, instead of a connection being made
between the two sides, each side connects to a local port.
So if I'm as Mirai, sort of, if I set daemons,
I'm listening to a local port
and then on the daemon side,
that computer's dialing to a local port.
And then the tunnel basically bridges the two sides.
So there's no longer any connection
from that computer to my computer.
And-
Connected to an intermediary.
Yes.
And like very concretely, if you follow this,
you will get it.
So if I just shut down the previous port,
I'm going to get the previous daemons.
And in this case, what I'm going to do
is I'm going to create a local URL, right?
So this is not the URL that's open
to other computers on the network.
This is a local URL.
I'm going to set TCP equals true
because this is a TCP connection.
If I use status,
this just gives me a little bit more information
than info, but you can see we're actually listening
to this 127, this address,
which is the local host address.
So I'm now listening to a port on my own computer.
And this is the port that the tunnel
is going to be opened on.
I can then create this SSH configuration.
And again, I can connect to this address
is 192.168.0.101.
And I actually need to use this port
because that's how I've configured.
So I'm just going to connect to this port.
And I'm going to use this port
because that's how I've configured that.
And I just need to specify this argument,
which is tunnel equals true, okay?
And then if I try and launch now using this configuration,
this should now hopefully work.
So yay, now I have two workers
and they are on another machine that I have
that's in London.
It's actually a very old sort of converted Mac mini,
actually, but it's running Linux now.
And to prove to you that it's running Linux,
I'm going to run like Mirai,
and I'm just going to ask for the sys.info, okay?
From the worker, and you can see that,
hey, this is running Linux.
And just to prove I'm not running Linux,
this is my machine.
It's definitely some form of Mac.
Okay, that was a whirlwind, but if you got that,
you'll understand how sort of SSH timing.
But as you can see,
all you had to do was create this configuration,
which is just this URL,
which is if you can access that machine over SSH,
you have all the information you need to run Mirai over SSH.
Okay, Charlie, this was so much information all at one time.
We have so many questions
that we will not be able to get to all of them,
but I want in our last five, four or five minutes here
to see if we can get to some of them.
So one of them from Brent was,
I believe NumPy distributes calculations
over multiple cores.
So does Mirai allow R to perform the same thing as well?
Yes, it does.
And the NumPy is very specific.
So it will run only numerical work that NumPy handles.
Mirai allows you to run arbitrary R expressions.
So anything you can do in R, you can put in Mirai.
That's the difference.
Great, any R processes.
Okay, Dan had also asked,
does Mirai ship with some kind of task viewing dashboard
like Python's dash visualization
so that you don't have to type info over and over?
Not built in.
Okay, great.
Let's see.
We had another question that was,
can we use parallel detect cores
to see how many daemons we can use?
I really like this question
because I don't know how many daemons I would have access to.
And that's a great question.
And like Mirai by design forces you
to actually specify the number you want.
So that can be, you know, that can be 14,
which is sort of the number of cores I have on my laptop.
So you can use something like parallel,
sorry, parallel detect cores or whatever.
Bam.
But, you know, you can easily be on a server
with, you know, 256 cores or something.
And like, sometimes you don't want to use all your cores
because you might be running something else, right?
So like, it never has that context,
you running a automatic function.
The other reason is this,
like you might want to be using your cores
if what you're doing is compute intensive, right?
You want to sort of utilize all your cores.
Fine.
But instead, if what you're doing
is actually waiting on IO,
so this is like, if you're requesting like a download, right?
That is actually not taking all your computation power.
So for those kinds of tasks,
you might actually want to use more
than the number of cores you have.
So you might want to use like 28,
like if all you're doing is like querying some remote API.
So that's also another reason why like,
I don't sort of try and assume
like the number that people want.
And yeah.
Okay.
So with our last two minutes,
Zach said he had to leave, but he had a great question.
He said, in typical data science work,
would parallel processing be more useful
than async processing, do you think?
Yes.
And Mirai actually powers a lot of things
sort of under the hood, right?
So if you're using parallel per,
that uses Mirai, so you set daemons,
but you use the normal per syntax,
and that is just parallel.
It's not async.
Where async really sort of comes into its own
is if you're using Mirai with Shiny,
or you're using Mirai with something like Plumber 2.
So again, Mirai powers Plumber 2 under the hood.
So if you use an async function in Plumber 2,
that implicitly uses Mirai.
Awesome.
Okay, I bet we can get in one more question.
One more, one more.
So Rob had asked, can you print progress slash percentages
that only get shown on call?
Like while things are running?
I think that's what that's asking.
Yes, right.
So very quickly, if you do like a Mirai map,
one of the collection options,
so instead of just collecting, is you can do like progress,
and that gives you a progress indicator.
Aha, okay, cool.
Please carry on while I do something.
I'm going through and just looking at all these questions.
I think that I will get with Charlie
since we are out of time,
and we'll see if we can answer some of these.
There is one from Notobeko, there's one from David Diaz,
and they look like they could be answered pretty quickly.
So we'll answer them in the chat after the session.
Charlie will help.
Excellent.
All right.
The last thing I want to mention,
oh, no, I'm out of time.
You are out of time.
There is a Mirai skill.
So if you folks out have access to Cloud Code or OpenCode
or some great AI agent, install the RLIB skill Mirai,
and you can just invoke that.
You can transform all your sort of normal scripts
into parallel and async code.
Amazing.
Oh, I just spelled sorcery wrong in the chat.
Don't at me.
Hold on, let's fix it.
All right.
Thank you so much, Charlie.
That was amazing.
You're getting thank yous in the chat.
Thank you for being patient with us
while we all try to muddle through what async is,
what parallel is, what Mirai does,
what future and promises are.
I think we all learned a lot
and have a lot to like go Google and think about.
I wish that I knew about this in undergrad and grad school.
I definitely didn't,
and it would have helped my quality of life
with coding so much.
So thank you so much.
We will get with Charlie
to answer some of the more simple questions afterwards
in the chat.
We will see you all on Thursday
at the Data Science Hangout.
If you would like, thank you, everybody.
Have a fantastic week.
I'll see you when you see you.
Thanks, Pauline.
Thanks, everybody.
Bye.
Thank you, Charlie.